# 1. two sum

## Problem
Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return _indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`_.

You may assume that each input would have **_exactly_ one solution**, and you may not use the _same_ element twice.

You can return the answer in any order.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [2,7,11,15], target = 9
**Output:** [0,1]
**Explanation:** Because nums[0] + nums[1] == 9, we return [0, 1].

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [3,2,4], target = 6
**Output:** [1,2]

**Example 3:**

**Input:** nums = [3,3], target = 6
**Output:** [0,1]

## Idea
The given problem requires us to find two numbers from the `nums` array such that their sum equals the specified target. The solution should return the indices of these two numbers.

## Solution 1
To solve this, we use two loops. We iterate over each number in the `nums` array using `i`. For each `i`, we again iterate over the `nums` array using `j`. If the numbers at `i` and `j` add up to `target` and `i` is not equals `j`, then `i` and `j` are our answer. We return them.

Because we use two loops as nested in this solution, the time complexity is O(n^2), where n is the length of the `nums` array. Since this solution doesn't use any additional array or data structures, the space complexity is O(1).

```
const twoSum = function(nums, target) {
	for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
		for (let j = 0; j < nums.length; j++) {
			if (nums[i] + nums[j] === target && i !== j) {
				return [i, j];
			}
		}
	}
}
```

## Solution 2
To reduce the time complexity, we can use a hash table. First, we declare a map variable and then iterate over the `nums` array. For each number, we find the difference as target minus `nums[i]`. If the map has this difference as a key, we return the map's value for this difference and the current index `i`. Otherwise, we add the current number to our map with its index `i` as the value.

The loop iterates the `nums` array once, so the time complexity is O(n), where n is the length of the `nums` array. We use a map to store all the elements of the `nums` array, so the space complexity is O(n).

```
const twoSum = function(nums, target) {
	const map = new Map();
	for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
		const diff = target - nums[i];
		if (map.has(diff)) {
			return [i, map.get(diff)];
		} else {
			map.set(nums[i], i);
		}
	}
}
```
