# 26. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array

## Problem
Given an integer array `nums` sorted in **non-decreasing order**, remove the duplicates [**in-place**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm) such that each unique element appears only **once**. The **relative order** of the elements should be kept the **same**. Then return _the number of unique elements in_ `nums`.

Consider the number of unique elements of `nums` to be `k`, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

- Change the array `nums` such that the first `k` elements of `nums` contain the unique elements in the order they were present in `nums` initially. The remaining elements of `nums` are not important as well as the size of `nums`.
- Return `k`.

**Custom Judge:**

The judge will test your solution with the following code:

int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}

If all assertions pass, then your solution will be **accepted**.

**Example 1:**

**Input:** nums = [1,1,2]
**Output:** 2, nums = [1,2,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

**Example 2:**

**Input:** nums = [0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]
**Output:** 5, nums = [0,1,2,3,4,_,_,_,_,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).

## Idea
This problem gives a sorted array `nums`. We must remove duplicates in-place without extra space. The best approach uses tow pointers.
## Solution
We use two pointers called `i` and `j`. Pointer `i` tracks the last position of unique numbers. while `j` iterates over the `nums` array. if `nums[i]` is different from `nums[j]`. We increment `i` by one and put the value of `nums[j]` into `nums[i]`  . At the end, all numbers before the position `i` are unique and sorted, The length of this unique section is `i + 1`
```
const removeDuplicates = function(nums) {
	if (nums.length === 0) return 0;

	let i = 0;
	for (let j = 1; j < nums.length; j++) {
		if (nums[i] !== nums[j]) {
			i++;
			nums[i] = nums[j];
		}
	}
	return i + 1;
}
```

