# 124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum

[124. Binary Tree Maximum Path Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/)

## Problem

A **path** in a binary tree is a sequence of nodes where each pair of adjacent nodes in the sequence has an edge connecting them. A node can only appear in the sequence **at most once**. Note that the path does not need to pass through the root.

The **path sum** of a path is the sum of the node's values in the path.

Given the `root` of a binary tree, return _the maximum **path sum** of any **non-empty** path_.

## Solution

1. Initializing the maximum sum with the root's value.
2. Using a depth-first search (DFS) approach to explore possible paths down the tree.
3. Calculating the maximum path sum at each node, considering paths that include the node and go down either the left or right subtree.
4. Considering the possibility of a path that passes through a node and includes sums from both the left and right subtrees, updating the overall maximum sum if this path offers a higher sum.
5. Returning the highest path sum found after exploring all possible paths in the tree.

```typescript
function maxPathSum(root: TreeNode | null): number {
  if (!root) return 0; // If the tree is empty, return 0 as the maximum path sum.

  let res: number = root.val; // Initialize the result with the root value.

  function dfs(node: TreeNode | null): number {
    if (node === null) return 0; // Base case: If the node is null, return 0.

    let leftMax = Math.max(dfs(node.left), 0); // Calculate the max path sum of the left subtree.
    let rightMax = Math.max(dfs(node.right), 0); // Calculate the max path sum of the right subtree.

    // Update the maximum path sum for the current node, considering the split.
    res = Math.max(res, node.val + leftMax + rightMax);

    // Return the max path sum without the split.
    return node.val + Math.max(leftMax, rightMax);
  }

  dfs(root); // Start the DFS from the root node.
  return res; // Return the final result.
}
