# 701. Insert into a Binary Search Tree

[701. Insert into a Binary Search Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-into-a-binary-search-tree/)

## Problem

You are given the `root` node of a binary search tree (BST) and a `value` to insert into the tree. Return _the root node of the BST after the insertion_. It is **guaranteed** that the new value does not exist in the original BST.

**Notice** that there may exist multiple valid ways for the insertion, as long as the tree remains a BST after insertion. You can return **any of them**.

## Solution

There are two ways to insert a node into a binary search tree: recursively and iteratively.
The recursive solution involves a function that takes the root of the tree and the value to insert. If the root is null, create a new TreeNode with the given value and return it as the new root of the subtree. If the root is not null, compare the value to be inserted with the root's value, and then call the function recursively to insert the value in the left or right subtree. Finally, return the root.
The iterative solution involves using a while loop to traverse the tree and find the right spot for insertion. Start with the root. If it's null, create and return a new node with the value. If not, compare the value with the current node's value in each iteration and then move to the left or right child, depending on the comparison. If the child is null, insert the new value here and return the original root.

```typescript
function insertIntoBST(root: TreeNode | null, val: number): TreeNode | null {  
  
  if (root === null) {  
    return new TreeNode(val);  
  }  
  if (val > root.val) {  
    root.right = insertIntoBST(root.right, val);  
  } else {  
    root.left = insertIntoBST(root.left, val);  
  }  
  
  return root;  
};

function insertIntoBST(root: TreeNode | null, val: number): TreeNode | null {  
  if (root === null) {  
    return new TreeNode(val);  
  }  
  
  let curNode = root;  
  while (true) {  
    if (val > curNode.val) {  
      if (curNode.right === null) {  
        curNode.right = new TreeNode(val);  
        return root;  
      }  
      curNode = curNode.right;  
    } else {  
      if (curNode.left === null) {  
        curNode.left = new TreeNode(val);  
        return root;  
      }  
      curNode = curNode.left;  
    }  }  
};
```
